doc: add config option to bootloader extflash (#13907)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/config_and_build/bootloaders/bootloader_external_flash.rst

* Single-byte read and write.
* Writing data from the internal flash memory to the external flash memory.

MCUboot typically increases slot sizes when external flash is enabled.

> Therefore you must accordingly adjust the ``CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS`` Kconfig option, which defines the maximum number of image sectors MCUboot can handle.

Reviewer: Maybe mention that the configuration is to be set for the MCUboot child image?

> For detailed configuration instructions see `MCUboot's Kconfig options used in Zephyr <https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-mcuboot/blob/main/boot/zephyr/Kconfig#L370>` for details.

Reviewer: The link looks odd in generated docs:
![image](https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/assets/89006246/6a177398-77c4-49e4-abbe-671fe1b9f886)

Reviewer: Also, use "detail" twice in one sentence. One can be removed

> * Single-byte read and write.

Reviewer: This is likely not the PR for it.
But should not the page on external flash with MCUboot mention CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_MCUBOOT_SECONDARY?

Author: That is a good point, I will see if I can address it here.

Reviewer: With the newest commit, we no longer mention CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_MCUBOOT_SECONDARY at all.
Sorry for my somewhat circular argumentation, but while CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_MCUBOOT_SECONDARY is set by default if the DTS thing is on, it is still relevant to mention it, so users can disable it.
For example, I have seen users enabling external flash for something else, but  wanting MCUboot in internal flash.

Author: Apologies for the oversight, will address.

* Writing data from the internal flash memory to the external flash memory.

> MCUboot typically increases slot sizes when external flash is enabled.

Reviewer: Users have to do this as a consequence of enabling external flash.
I suggest we desrcibe CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS after we have told users how to enable external flash. Such as at the end of this section.

* Single-byte read and write.
* Writing data from the internal flash memory to the external flash memory.

To enable external flash with MCUboot the following must take place:

> 1. Follow the instructions in :ref:`pm_external_flash`, which enables external flash use in the nRF5340 DK's DTS file (by enabling the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_MCUBOOT_SECONDARY` Kconfig option).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow the instructions in :ref:`pm_external_flash`, which enables external flash use in the nRF5340 DK's DTS file.
#.  Enable the  :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_MCUBOOT_SECONDARY` Kconfig option. Depending on the build, this option is 'y' by default.
```

* Single-byte read and write.
* Writing data from the internal flash memory to the external flash memory.

To enable external flash with MCUboot the following must take place:

1. Follow the instructions in :ref:`pm_external_flash`, which enables external flash use in the nRF5340 DK's DTS file.

#. Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_MCUBOOT_SECONDARY` Kconfig option.
   Depending on the build, this option is set to ``y`` by default.

> #. Adjust the ``CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS`` `MCUboot Kconfig option <https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-mcuboot/blob/main/boot/zephyr/Kconfig#L370>`_ accordingly for child images, which defines the maximum number of image sectors MCUboot can handle, as MCUboot typically increases slot sizes when external flash is enabled.

Reviewer 2: `image sectors MCUboot can handle`
this is for any image-slot. mayby worth to describe that `image sectors` size are the same as flash erase-block-size for any memory integrated in NCS.
(MCUboot uses different terminology)

* Single-byte read and write.
* Writing data from the internal flash memory to the external flash memory.

> To enable external flash with MCUboot the following must take place:

Reviewer 3: I would also add "steps" after "complete the following", to be even more consistent with similar lines in docs.

1. Follow the instructions in :ref:`pm_external_flash`, which enables external flash use in the nRF5340 DK's DTS file.

> #. Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_MCUBOOT_SECONDARY` Kconfig option.
>    Depending on the build, this option is set to ``y`` by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_MCUBOOT_SECONDARY` Kconfig option.
   Depending on the build configuration, this option can be set to ``y`` by default.
```
If it depends on something, "is by default" is not accurate.

> #. Update the ``CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS`` `MCUboot Kconfig option <https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-mcuboot/blob/main/boot/zephyr/Kconfig#L370>`_ accordingly for child images, which defines the maximum number of image sectors MCUboot can handle, as MCUboot typically increases slot sizes when external flash is enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Update the ``CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS`` `MCUboot Kconfig option <https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-mcuboot/blob/main/boot/zephyr/Kconfig#L370>`_ accordingly for child images.
This option defines the maximum number of image sectors MCUboot can handle, as MCUboot typically increases slot sizes when external flash is enabled.
```

   Otherwise ``CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS`` defaults to the value used for internal flash, and the application may not boot if the value is set too low.

>    (The "image sector" size is the same as the flash erase-block-size across all |NCS| integrated memory.)

Author: That is a good catch, I will remove.

  * An out-of-tree external flash driver is not selecting :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_HAS_DRIVER`, resulting in partitions for images located in the external flash memory being not accessible.

>   * Insufficient value set for ``CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS``, as MCUboot typically increases slot sizes when external flash is enabled.

Reviewer 3: Given that this section has 4 bullets, of which 2 reference Kconfig options in the NCS, 2 reference Kconfig options elsewhere (MCUboot?), I suggest you clarify where these "elsewhere" Kconfigs can be found or set.

>   * Insufficient value set for ``CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS``, as MCUboot typically increases slot sizes when external flash is enabled.

Reviewer 3: "MCUboot typically increases slot sizes when external flash is enabled" -- This information is not mentioned anywhere else but here. Shouldn't this be mentioned in the main part of the doc, not in troubleshooting?

>   * Insufficient value set for ``CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS``, as MCUboot typically increases slot sizes when external flash is enabled.

Reviewer 3: Also the Kconfig CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS is not mentioned anywhere else but here. If it requires a specific value, shouldn't this be mentioned in the configuration steps, not in troubleshooting? How is the user supposed to know about setting the value before checking this section?

Note that all other Kconfigs in this section refer to ":ref:`pm_external_flash`", except `CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_HAS_DRIVER`, which is however mentioned in the same ref.
If you decide to keep the mention of ``CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS`` in troubleshooting, I think it should also be ref'ing a page with more information.

Author: > Kconfig CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS is not mentioned anywhere else but here. If it requires a specific value, shouldn't this be mentioned in the configuration steps, not in troubleshooting? How is the user supposed to know about setting the value before checking this section?

@hellesvik-nordic Is it correct that setting this Kconfig option is not **required**?

If so, then I think it can stay here. I agree though that perhaps this info should be placed somewhere else? Looking into it.

Reviewer: CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS defaults to a value used for internal flash.
However, if you enable external flash, you need to increase CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS, or the application will never boot.

    See :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.

  * An out-of-tree external flash driver is not selecting :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_HAS_DRIVER`, resulting in partitions for images located in the external flash memory being not accessible.
    See :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.

  * Insufficient value set for ``CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS``, as MCUboot typically increases slot sizes when external flash is enabled.

>     See `MCUboot's Kconfig options used in Zephyr <https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-mcuboot/blob/main/boot/zephyr/Kconfig#L370>` for details.

Reviewer: ![image](https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/assets/89006246/6bb3869f-bd12-4de4-ac8f-7d4a9840c521)

    See :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.

  * An out-of-tree external flash driver is not selecting :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_HAS_DRIVER`, resulting in partitions for images located in the external flash memory being not accessible.
    See :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.

>   * Insufficient value set for ``CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS``, as MCUboot typically increases slot sizes when external flash is enabled.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Insufficient value set for the ``CONFIG_BOOT_MAX_IMG_SECTORS`` Kconfig option, as MCUboot typically increases slot sizes when external flash is enabled.
```
